---
title: Engineer thin membrane for close to 100% optical reflection
---

Normally high optical reflection membranes are made of alternating layers of index of refrection. The thickness of each layer if typically $\lambda/4$ thick. The high reflectivity of achieved through destructive interference of partially transimitted electromagnetic wave at those multiply interfaces. The more layers the higher the reflectivity. However this will make membrane thickness at least few times thicker than the optical wavelength. Recent progress in optomechnical research has pushed the mass of mechanical object so small that the membrane under study is usually less than a 100 nm. As the laser wavelenth is usually 1000 nm, it asks for new ideas/technology to improve optical reflection.

Guided-Mode-Resoance (GMR) is one of such techniques. Instead of varying index of refraction in the z direction (laser propogation direction), it modifies membrane in the transverse direction. A simple approach can be digging through holes on the membrane (Yes you get it right, we increase reflectivity by removing reflective materials!) in a certain pattern. This in fact is creating a special optical waveguide in the transeverse direction. Different from normal waveguide that reflecs wave perfectly back (total internal reflection), it permit the wave arriving at the boundary to slowly leak out. By carefully engineer the phases of thoes slowly leaked wave, destructive/constructive interference can be achieved, which can lead to perfect reflection. As one can imagine, such delicate engineering requires high precision fabrication control. And it also depends on laser wavelegnth.
